Modeling Data:
There are two types of modelling the Data
1) Statestical modelling.
2) Algorithmic modelling.

Statestical modelling:
We should find the underlying data distribution.
Suppose if all the values are spread around mean and variance we can say that data follows normal distribution model.
We should have a linear relationship between the variables. Finding mean is not really enough in many cases.

Algorithmic Modelling:
There are multiple factors which determine the outcome of a particular requirment.
In algorithmic modelling the main idea is to come up with a function that defines the relationship between the input and output.
The job of ML is to obtain the relationship. 
More importance is given to the final output.


                    Statistical Modelling vs Algorithmic Modelling
Simple, intuitive models                      Complex,flexible models
More suited for low-dimensional data          Can work with high-dimensinal data
Robus statistical analysis is possible        Not suitable for robust statistical analysis
Focus on intrepretability                     Focus on prediction
Data lean models                              Data hungry models
More of statistics                            More of ml,dl


The job of ml or deep learning is to find functions or models to approximate the relationships(true value and predicted value must be same.)

y^ = f(x)^(our approximation)

y^ is the predicted value and y is the true value

A lot of data is available today. And as the bulk storage devices and GPU's are available at a cheap rate data science became very popular.



Breaking Myths of data science:
In data science machine does not do everything on itself.
For example in collection of data everything is done by human being.
In storing the data the schema and the file system is completely decided by human being.
In processing data the techniques for cleaning and processing are decided by humans and the rest part is done by machine.
In describing data humans decide which information is worth describing and also decides how it should be described.

Data science need not require Big data or deep learning compulsorily.
For example data science is also useful for small businesses which have a very less amount of data. 

Data need not be useful in all cases.
Some time we cannot use it when there are no meaningful insights, no actionable insights, noisy data(errors like spelling mistakes), lack of clean data, etc.